holy moly I'm in a new place yes that's
right I moved but that's not the real
interesting thing that happened this
week there is it's been a bit of a slow
week because you know no League of
Legends Emma sighs done all that stuff
but there is some interesting stuff
happening in the business world which is
why we have such a cool guest on for
tonight we'll introduce him right after
this break hotline link episode 29
starts right now
hotline League is brought to you by open
by HP well there we go it is episode 29
of hot line League I'm joining it yeah
joined and we're filming this on a
Monday May 28th I need to get better
about saying the day because then people
need to then they know what they
whatever the point is there's one a week
and it's uploaded weekly so shouldn't
they just know it's the one from that
week yeah but we do it on different date
we try to do on Mondays at 8:00
Pacific oh not done that a couple times
it's almost always been that time slot
no though I don't think we've hit
Mondays at 8:00 for the last couple of
newton-raphson sounds for last couple of
weeks because we didn't do it last week
because I came in on Monday I didn't do
it Ross gone on Tuesday I was a Tuesday
oh and then the week before I was in
Europe so it's been it's been a or
whatever let's get into this mark he's
my constant co-host how's it going work
great it's Memorial Day weekend I forgot
because I don't work aside for this
right now
over the last time we had a holiday and
you said you didn't honor it or you
didn't celebrate it or whatever I didn't
it was very offensive
I didn't celebrate this one either I uh
I got up early and then went back to bed
and then I've been washing thirteen
reasons why the second that's not a good
show sounds like you had the day off
yeah but I always have one we're working
now huh is this you call this time off
should I go
are we done here I mean it's hardly
working okay so you I went camping as
well this week you know yeah how was the
camping it was good the first day was
really nice it was a little cold the
second day and the third day was raining
so we were gonna leave that day anyways
we did the fuck out of there so was it
camping or was a glamping so I think
depends where you
draw that line because we had a tent we
were on the ground okay that's kind of a
Meier okay cuz like we're on a
campground yeah it wasn't like straight
in the woods and like they were still
Wi-Fi up there so like I was like my
phone was kind of dead because I
couldn't charge it well yeah I checked
Twitter it once it twice so I don't know
is that glamping that feels like
glamping maybe internet maybe next up
but you know on the on the bottom rung
of this show because he's beneath us not
because he's a plus value to us and
maybe maybe even more value his
impressions count one thing that matters
is Ovey Ovey he is a friend of ours and
he's quite a notable person Oh V do you
want to give your spiel on your eSports
life yeah sure I'm actually normally
behind the camera in eSports but I've
sort of been in the industry for about
five years I started out as a content
creator I made this long form writing
site called
eSports guy that did pretty well back in
like 2014 used to front-page read it a
lot and I got recruited by Riot Games so
I joined onto the eSports team there
Nick Allen gave my first Japanese for
its ran day to day League operations for
the LCS for about three years and then
from there I went to this company called
catalyst where I co run eSports with
Bryce Blum eSports law and over the last
year and a half since I've left a riot
we've done a lot of cool stuff we hope
so hotshot retained us to get the team
bought by Madison Square Garden we hope
the Golden State Warriors get into
eSports we've helped TSM get their
dr.pepper sponsorship and we've worked
with a bunch of other people as well so
it's been a cool fun ride been in
eSports with a lot of different hats on
but League is always have a special
place tomorrow for League so you're just
bringing a lot of money to the industry
it sounds like you're just like spend
your money on eSports send your money
you're like the eSports salesman usually
the people I work with have more than
300 concurrent viewers but yeah well
normally we have hired more than three
on a concurrent viewers but you know
sometimes shit happens we run against
late show starts late we run against NBA
we don't have the highest prestige guest
you
it's all this stuff I will say I think
the warrior the Warriors rockets game
must be affecting viewership I would
hundreds MP watching it it's not for
this yeah well I don't even I don't even
know what that is no fortnight Celeste
you hundred forty thousand viewers yeah
fair enough
how many people would watch clutch verse
: Guardians
you know what's once a hell fair enough
yeah that's what those two teams are
right I think I saw someone who's
treating today all three teams left in
the playoffs our own LCS teams the Cavs
one up the east and then the words in
the Rockets have clutch and golden
Guardians oh that's actually kind of
cool all right so anyway so I don't know
if you guys caught all that but ovie has
been in eSports for a very long time
does a bunch of really important stuff
and it's actually a pretty good episode
to have them on because I think this one
you know it's a little less exciting
than talking about you know who won MSI
or whatever but I think a lot of you
guys are very interested in sort of the
business side of eSports how things are
done the different teams that are in how
they get in how all this stuff works and
while mark and I know a lot of this
stuff I think it's also really nice to
have ovie who works behind the scenes
and has relationships with a lot of
these different teams and has done
worked on some of the bigger deals
worked at riot on a lot of the stuff
behind the scenes who can who can really
talk about the stuff so I think for this
show in particular it'll be really cool
to talk about that stuff there was
obviously the BAM tech and I should say
the ESPN Plus announcement because
that's really what got an ounce this
past week which I did a video on if if
you're watching the vaad right now you
can pause this go watch that if you are
interested in it but 20 minutes long I
wouldn't watch it I tried to prep for
this um how far did you make it in about
a minute okay 20 minutes and I skipped a
little further in yeah and then I just
closed it well are you familiar with
what it is Marth BAM Tech deal yeah
Travis I don't know anything can you
please explain to me what just happened
okay actually we should have OB explain
it
I think Oh be are you comfortable
explaining oh sure I can you explain
because I've just been talking how it
died why did matters I don't know about
why I died but maybe he can explain what
God announced why here's ago I don't
know yeah I can speak to some of the
high points I think this is public now
try and keep in mind but basically riots
had to deal with mo BAM at the end of
2016 to have well that was actually a
bit interesting The Wall Street Journal
and a lot of news at with news outlets
sort of characterize the deal is having
exclusive broadcast for yes riot didn't
frame it in the quite that way or they
at least they didn't comment on it in my
in my interview they said that it was
still gonna be streamed on twitch and
YouTube my assumption and I can say this
because I don't I don't know we won't
put OB on the spot but was that there
was probably a plan over time to phase
out twitch in ES and YouTube in favor of
this platform because that makes a lot
of sense that you would build the
platform over time and as you migrate
people over to it'll probably be
exclusive but probably not relevant
between 2017 and 2023 so around 45
million dollars a year
it was inclusive of multiple regions not
just North America but presumably all
the regions maybe there are some regions
left out I'm not sure exactly how much
of those public so I'll be careful but
multiple regions for sure but then
recently this past week it was announced
that that deal was that dude was
dissolved and basically because mo BAM
in part because ml BAM got bought by
ESPN does right ESPN tis need they have
been they have a new deal the terms of
which were not disclosed none of the
numbers of which are disclosed
none of which stopped you from running a
video saying it's the worst setback in
the history of leaky sports but yeah do
you think there was a bigger set back in
leaky sports so it's an interesting
question we can get into but I don't
think it's I don't think it's as much of
a setback as you think but I also think
it is a setback but maybe not for the
reasons that you stated but I could jump
into it if you honor I don't know if
yeah I mean I okay so so cuz that's some
people
have people felt like I had a bit of a
sensationalist title on the YouTube
video where I talked about it being like
the biggest setback for me
I don't think League has had too many
big setbacks in fact it's hard to like
marquee where's I think you mentioned to
me you were talking about this and you
guys were kind of trying to theorize
like what what are big setbacks and I
and so I think part of the reason I said
that the biggest mystic is I do you
think it is a big setback and I guess
people can debate about whether or not
how big it is I certainly never some
people start to say Oh Travis saying
League is dying that was never my
intention but I think if you look at the
history of League of Legends eSports
this is a pretty momentous defeat I
would say compared to everything else
that's happened out there but because it
feels like everything has just been up
and up and up and up and up for a long
time so I don't know Ovie if you you
would you would share a different side
of that yes I mean I think that it is
you know the numbers not public which is
what I think a lot of people are sort of
hesitant to give a ton of analysis
because you know I'm like say the
overwatch deal where we know that it's
90 million over two years we don't
really know what the terms are for the
ESPN Plus steel I think it's probably
safe to assume it's not as ambitious as
the band deal was if it was I think they
probably wouldn't have dropped the
announcement on the Friday before a long
weekend and they're a bit more fanfare
around it but yeah I mean I agree I
think it's a step back in some ways I
will say the one of things that is
interesting about it is that the BAM
deal was originally supposed to cover
multiple regions right and I think it
was gonna be very difficult I think for
bamdeck to try and sell rights in Korea
Vietnam Southeast Asia the United States
Europe I think given that this ESPN Plus
deal - my understanding is just for
North America I think that leaves that
gives other regions more control over
their destinies to be able to monetize
and sell the rights or what they're
worth if you think about it 40 million
dollars for 12 40 50 million dollars for
12 regions where the League of Legends
content is actually that's if you divide
that right it's think there's a roughly
ten teams Parisian that's like
you're talking about 130 hundred and
forty teams obviously some regions like
North America are gonna get a little bit
more of that pie but that you know 4050
million dollar number starts getting
much much much smaller as you start
dividing it a hundred and forty
different ways and so I think this
actually potentially isn't as bad a news
as people think and I think you know it
can help region sort of develop based on
how well their viewership is doing how
well they can monetize yeah for me I so
one thing is I agree with you that when
you think about it from that broad of a
perspective like the amount of different
the amount of different regions that a
compass that forty fifty but I always
saw that as sort of being the minimum
right because one thing we didn't
mention yet was that part of the deal
was that BAM tech and I guess their
partners or whoever else supposed to
help riot cell sponsors which by the way
is potentially part of the reason we
haven't I you could speculate that part
of the reason we never seen has been
sponsorship in the LCS is because this
deal hasn't been going well or forward
or whatever and so that the 40 to 50
million was at least like it was it was
a bare minimum amount and also they
never said it was always on average
right so maybe the first year the deal
like last year 2017 maybe it was only 50
or maybe it was only 20 million but I
know in a couple of years once they got
everything going it supposed to be a
hundred million arm or perhaps perhaps I
think the other thing was that there was
a pretty heavy implication that the
viewing experience like the technology
and everything they were gonna be
building would have allowed further
monetization like a loyalty system where
you get you you know pay $5 to subscribe
to the LCS na LCS and you get some sort
of special experience and maybe you get
like IP while you watch on that a lot of
different things that we've seen in the
dota world and csgo world in the
overwatch world I think we're somewhat
assumed to be coming into this now again
part of that speculation they never
announced it but I think that that's
it's pretty solid speculation from some
of the things that I've heard yeah I
mean look without all
you just kinda have to put speculation
speculation of everything I will say the
one reason why I do actually feel pretty
to me this
I do feel regretful that this deal fell
apart is or this deal was sort of
dissolved in replaced by this ESPN Plus
deal is that it seems like there's a
possibility for riot to try and create
they're maybe not their own streaming
platform per se and I feel like they
were really careful to say that they're
not creating their own streaming
platform but I think their own reviewing
experience yeah exactly I think you know
there's been a lot of discussion around
this lately that you know the broadcast
rights and the fees for broadcast rights
for League of Legends eSports or eSports
in general they're not necessarily
keeping up with the amount that or not
legal but in particular I think just
across the board a lot of it is
respected it because the advertising
dollars are not necessarily there yet
to justify some of the valuations that
these you know assets are being sold for
and so if you can create an experience
that let's maybe let's people subscribe
to I know riot has traditionally been
really hesitant to put concept behind a
paywall
I don't think anyone's really been able
to successfully do that but I think
there was a chance depending on what
they cooked up with BAM I mean it's a
world-class organization they built
something impressive enough I think
there's a possibility they could have
built like a premium experience that you
subscribe to and I think that could have
been industry industry changing like for
for for $99.99 $9.99 you can you can
watch just doublelift play or from his
perspective or you can watch or you can
listen to different commentators or
whatever like maybe cutie-pie and Tyler
one do a guess commentary on when LCS
day and then you get to listen to their
broadcast or whatever cutie pie you
either went probably not whoo right
would pick but it's kind of an example
of just like a really a bunch of really
cool things that I think would excite
people and quite frankly I think people
would not maybe be against but spending
$4.99 or $9.99 for instance a lot of
people spend $4.99 till 2 my twitch
channel and if they're willing to sub to
this thing then they probably would have
subbed to some really cool LCS thing
yeah look this is all speculation right
none of this is publicly known we can't
know for sure but I also don't know that
that means the door is closed right it
just means that you know the
doors obviously close with Bam tak but I
think riot you know I guess it's back to
the drawing board in some ways for them
but perhaps they can figure out an
individual experience for all their
different regions right so yeah
I'm not privy to exactly what's going on
but it would seem to me that's probably
the best way forward for them yeah well
so that's the premise for any
conversation we're gonna have around BAM
Tech or the BAM Tech deal if you know
doublelift oh so soon and we get 10,000
people watching this may be one of the
391 of you watching this right now can
explain this to them whenever they get
confused when I call our calls in about
it
I don't know but mark do you want to
give a spiel on how the callin system
works absolutely it's my favorite thing
to do over the entire broadcast so the
way this works is I'm gonna spamming the
discord link in chat right now you want
to go join that discord and once you're
in there there's gonna be a couple
channels you need to join you need to
join one of the pleb calls channel
unless your sub and sharps will explain
them later but you're gonna want to join
one of those voice channels you can be
yourself once you're in there and then
there are the txt channels above them
called pleb topics and in there you're
gonna want to type out whatever it is
you want to talk about and please make
sure you have a take and then we can
have some questions this episode because
yes it's kind of like business he
related but yeah yes if you have more
questions about like how do sponsors
really work and League like oh he's a
great guy to answer that and while that
might be a little bit more nebulous or
not even it's less if I take them we're
used to having I think it's fine for
this episode but generally speaking if
you have a take on something else like I
don't give a shit clash failed this
weekend I thought it was a bad game mode
because dadada and then we can pull you
or something like that because crash
also happened there's a lot of other
things we can talk about as well doesn't
have to be strictly BAM text so anything
you guys want to talk about heading to
the discord join those two groups are
the the channels and then go ahead and
put your tastes in make sure that you
are literally you've joined one of the
voice channels because we can't pull you
in a lot of people will pick questions
or topics and then they don't join a
voice channel so we can't pull them in
also if you are a sub you can put
something in the sub topic channel which
it doesn't you aren't guaranteed be
getting called in but that channel moves
a little slower we do check
so it gives you a little bit of an
increased chance I also helps you
support the show so appreciate it
so yeah I think we'll be pulling some
conversations again like I I would love
to make this a really good like eSports
business show where you you guys might
have a take like hey I'm worried there's
not enough sponsors or I wondering if
right should expand or any of these
types of things I think it's a great
episode to talk about that stuff since
we don't really have as much na LCS or
other league content to talk about so as
Mark pulls into that stuff OB let's
let's get to know you a little bit more
what do you what are you into you know
what how can these fans connect with you
what do you already like I was I was at
the channel are we good what we're
getting the ovie really quickly 60
seconds of getting out there what are
your interests I don't think so man I'm
just kind of a nerd these days but I
want to get back in the league for clash
didn't work out but if you have a clash
team ready to play yeah loosely I think
we're all planning on it but once the
news came out which was about like 30
minutes before inconveniently yeah kind
of fell apart for us but hope springs
eternal maybe for next time okay you're
into anime this is a new thing yes
recently got in a little bit of Danny
I'm certainly no oddly but my hero
Academy uh attack on Titan mega lo box
I'm just trying to start with the stuff
that's on the air right now
I've seen stuff like Full Metal
Alchemist and sword art online before
but I think the stuff that's on the air
right now plus attack on Titan is a lot
better than everyone allowed to talk
about an amoeba meet Travis every time I
try and talk about animate you tell me
we got I think I think this sixty
seconds are up we do need to get the
next call we need to get them to the
first college let's go ahead and go
ahead and do that Travis well before we
get to the next call I think Emily said
something we already told somebody in Oh
two second okay Emily said something
really smart in the trash you pointed
out that like OGN and actually MLG and
other people
tried the subscription model I didn't
need to say that no one's ever done it
before I guess what I meant to say is
that like at the publisher level like no
one's like gone full bore like yes we're
prepared to put our games flagship
content behind an eSports page or link
it into a game right like where you you
pay for an ax and I'm kind of like a
battle pass or a compendium thing you
know I think that could have been
interesting yeah so it's a good point
it's a nuance I skipped over so I'm glad
she called it out but yeah what I mean
is I think like full scale so anyways
caller what's cons is on much in the
chat how's it going cons pretty good how
about you pretty good where you calling
from
Virginia Virginia very good what do you
want to talk well first off how's
Virginia right now good that's good it's
only a little late yes well I'm sorry if
that's a veiled stab at us for hosting a
show in a non Eastern I don't know why
cons yes what do you want to talk about
on the show so I had a question for oh
yes that's right but I guess Mark and
Travis can put in their two cents as
well but my question was like as a
veteran of the eSports industry what
kind of college degrees and majors do
you see do teams and Ryan need right now
or like what what is most in-demand
those colors a marine biologist fun fact
yeah so yeah so actually one of the
things I do also is like help eSports
teams with hiring so have helped usually
like CEO CEO ocfo type candidates but I
see at I've helped a ton of teams and
just like in general like Marc and
Travis and I like I think people who are
in the industry often get hit up okay
like do you know someone would be a good
social media manager or someone like
that as far as like a general degree no
definitely not
I think especially from when I I think
when we got any sports it was very much
like a early days Wild West type
situation I often tell people that in my
experience the best way to get into
eSports if you can't at this point I
think actually some pretty good
internships with like Blizzard Riot
twitch discord a lot of you know very
established well reputed companies but I
think the easiest spot these sports in
my experience still is like just create
something like I've seen so many people
who like made a website made like a
passport as a job application and did a
cosplay created a blog which by the way
is how I got my start and then just got
noticed and got traction on reddit and I
mean I think people in eSports are that
we are starved for good talent to be
totally honest with you
I don't know anyone who is running an
organization or a company that I think
highly of that feels like yep you know
we're fully stocked and there's no more
room for growth like I think if you're
sort of a smart capable person I think
the easiest way to do it is just make
something and get notice that may not be
everyone's skill set so I think the
other stuff is I think social media
managers right now I don't know I would
necessarily say that you should just
like make that your life's purpose but
as far as like what's in demand I think
good social media managers not only
eSports teams but companies are like
Matteo for example is hiring for a
social media manager right now game
publishers I think that's one of the
hottest fields because being able to
speak fluently like being be able to
speak professionally but also fluently
and like memes and understand what's
going on on social media
latest trends knowing who lillte is
being able to you know reference the
latest like inside jokes on social media
super in demand otherwise I think all
the other stuff like I'm trying to think
I think I don't know about college
degrees but I think like people who have
experience running businesses or people
who have a lot of experience selling
right now aren't pretty high demand
sponsorship sales anyone who understands
how to talk to brands and make eSports
make sense sense to them is in huge
demand right now is the - I'd go for
good mark I don't know if you want to
add anything to that I think I think
eSports has progressed to the point now
where it's kind of an industry like
others where like you just need to look
at job openings what people are posting
because most companies are like most
teams are now run like companies and
they'll have like an official website
and like a career section or at least
their twitter will post things every now
and then and I think a lot of people
should stop approaching eSports as a
core
and approach it like an industry and
like pick out a job that you think you
would enjoy doing elsewhere and then get
into eSports because it's a little weird
to be like I want to work in in eSports
but like well what do you want to do you
know the same way like I want to work in
movies it's like well do you want to
direct them do you want to star in them
do you want to edit them like because
there's a lot of jobs within that
industry at this point yeah so I just
sent a boy an email and it worked but I
think a lot of the times those days are
over now does that address your question
cons yeah those answers are perfect oh
great thanks so much for calling in I
really appreciate it
yeah Cheers all right easy easy first
one yeah before we flame ovie and give
him his his parth question I love it is
there is there jacob wolf around then we
could try and pull real quick that's so
funny by the way a couple while we're
moving in the next call shots you the
aeronautics who subbed the wayward soul
who subbed Ferdie IRL rom bear tow crazy
Canuck 85 sofa wall
selim JT 1237 Brahms Brahms gifted us up
to OB oak silk are actually sorry that
was bubble Cola well Cole gets us up -
okay so impressive that he was able to
identify that that was u-tubes ree
subbed the eternal cow umberto so
cyrillic sent some bits and we got the
next caller
sushi is here sushi where he called from
Seattle Washington we get a lot of
people from Seattle I guess there's a
lot of leek fans up there have you so I
gotta watch online week there since the
revolution rather yeah so conversation
about getting an NBA team in that'd be
sweet yeah thanks what what have you
called in before sushi oh no that's my
first time oh well welcome to and thanks
for being a sub what do you want to talk
about the show
right so my question is that you know
how in the LPL they have to division the
East Division of West Division and host
city yeah do you think that will work in
na we have a west and east coast and
their host city yeah I don't know mark
oh we set up the last one so maybe you
should grab this one uh and then we'll
go to oh because I'm sure he has some
good ideas on it too so there's like
what I want and what I think is good for
the scenery right now and like I would
love especially because the server is
kind of in the middle anyways like it
would be really fun read well it also is
a little tough to talk about cuz like I
feel like regionally is not a huge focus
for North America but it's also kind of
that way because we haven't set it up to
be regional yet so maybe that would come
with it but like a lot of folks is on
worlds and like I'm sure a lot of the
teams and some fans and coaches and
stuff like that we kind of sticks in the
mud and they'd be saying splitting us up
into two conferences makes us weaker you
lower the quality scrim practice yadda
yadda yadda it's not great for what you
want to achieve but the end of the day I
think it does make the scene a lot more
fun and I think a lot of people joy that
kind of like East Coast West Coast and
then they go meet in the middle it
depends how you do it the country is
really big you can never have those two
teams play without flying them out then
that brings a lot of travel or other
inner conference play all this stuff so
you know I love to have conferences and
I think there's a way to do them well
but right now I don't think the
community would be able to support that
like happening anytime soon like you
have to then like there's so many
logistical issues that crop up with like
now you need to build two stages and you
need to find two groups of talent and
split them up and shoot on different
days or maybe you don't shoot on differ
like I don't know how you do it but it
becomes a lot more difficult when you
think that like having two separate
physical locations is a bit of a
nightmare
well I look just sorry a little bit
added like you know how an LPO they do
like a whole week do you think that will
work here as well or you mean like a
whole week at one location
yeah or whole week let's just say whole
weekend
location yeah I think that's that's
possible like the thing is like they
have all those places built right now
right like there I don't think the LPL
is transporting equipment from each of
those arenas I think each of them have
their own and and hopefully Emily or
someone who might know this a little bit
better and Shack and chime in but I
don't think that they are transporting
equipment I think it's nice they built
those stadiums because I think the
stadiums are getting built alongside the
teams is what I understand like it's
supposed to be like the team Arena right
so like you would have to build another
arena on the East Coast so you don't
have to move all the equipment every
time and I just don't think that that's
something Riot wants to spend resources
on right now as they're trying to like
move into franchising and work on some
of the some other issues first yeah Oh V
what it what's your take on this I mean
used to I'm not asking you to pull
anything from discussions that you had
it right but knowing that you used to
work on the league you might have like a
more interesting take on this yeah yeah
when I worked it right on the league
I've seen this is exactly the kind of
things we talked about right like we
talked we talked about structure and
format and all kinds of things I think
there's nothing to so long term no you
know having two divisions in east-west
is like a classic way of dividing you
know dividing up sports leagues I don't
think there's anything inherently wrong
with that as far as League you know
geolocation is kind of like a hot button
issue a lot of people really like that
one of the unique things about eSports
is that you don't have to be a fan of
the city there's very there's a sense
that like teams are global um I will say
though I think personally I'm kind of a
fan of geolocation I think or region
locking regionalization I think it
allows people to I think it allows for
teams to build affinity and fan bases
that might not otherwise like for
example you know cloud 9 TSM and other
teams that have sort of won everything
in sight since they've been in the
league tend to have pretty large fan
bases and you know not naming names to
pick on anyone but like teams that don't
really win a lot or have flirted with
relegation or now in the franchise era
you know been at the bottom of the
standings it's a little harder for them
to pick up fans if you look at
traditional sports right you know I
can't imagine why
anyone would be a fan at the Cleveland
Browns if they didn't live in Ohio like
there's just nothing you just lose over
and over and over again I think sort of
similarly I think for some you sports
team being able to have that feeling
like oh you know I'm from Philadelphia
and this is like my Philadelphia team
we're like I'm from San Francisco is my
San Francisco team I think it's
something that could work and you know
you've started to see the beginnings of
that with overwatch League all the games
are still played in Burbank so we
realistically haven't seen what it looks
like because you know it's not but there
are being to to their credit though
while they are played in Burbank I think
like the and and the Rockets I try to do
this a little bit in league like there
are viewing events and kind of like
activations that are happening in these
different places I don't know what the
what's going on with the cloud 9 or the
Spitfire stuff but they're there I know
they were planning on building something
in and the UK so there is still some
aspect of it even if it is all on
Burbank yeah yeah you know I think I've
seen some pretty amazing you know video
footage and pictures from sold out fan
you know meetups in Houston and San
Francisco and some other major media
markets and you know people really feel
the pride in a way that I haven't seen
necessarily for some league teams like
I've seen people who are like on diehard
valiant fans because I'm a fan of every
LA team so like for the same reasons I'm
a Lakers fan I'm a valiant fan I haven't
really heard anyone talk that way about
any of the league teams in part because
they have a you know geolocator that's
anecdotal that's just one person but
well I'm something powerful there but
sorry you about to say oh well you know
I'm like the clutch gaming you know how
they're from Houston yeah like they have
like they've been building up a fan base
in Houston because that's like their
home team mm-hmm you know like that
that's why I think yeah yeah for sure I
mean I think long-term if they actually
like play games in Houston and they
really geolocators like a Houston clutch
or clutch Houston or something like that
yeah I mean I could definitely see that
working out we're just to Mark's point
though I'm not sure that's gonna happen
in the next year but I 104 something
that makes us and there's nothing to
prevent it from you know working out the
mark mark we lost you on scope what is
picture that's awesome did we mark did
we lose mark in general okay well we
lost someone general hopefully you'll
come back otherwise the overlay is gonna
start getting really funky yep
that's that's it getting really funky
OVU never looked better how can I get
myself in back into the frame uh yeah
there we go
well that's Mark's frame so now you get
now you can give mark you can rebuttal
to your own opinion for as Mark right
now in the muck get down to the bottom
in here mark yes your spot hopefully we
get him back I I don't know a good way
to fix this um but we'll just we'll just
get to do out for a little bit yeah I
sushi I look I think regionalization is
a really good the more I've seen it the
more I've liked it and the more I
thought about it the more I've liked it
and I was pretty skeptical of it in the
beginning I think overwatch League has
done a good job can you stop I think
overwatch League is done a good job of
setting a precedent there that like
hopefully other people will be able to
follow and I don't know if we'll ever
see it in leagues lifetime but I would
you know it's the type of thing right
I do wish it existed I think the problem
is right now I don't think they should
be adding more teams to the league so
creating kind of this dual conference
thing I think would be really hard to do
without adding more teams to the league
and hello mark
where is he back okay okay that was can
you rejoin the Skype call cuz the
overlays wait it says I'm in the Skype
call you guys are moving no youyou
should probably close your skype and
restart it
that's your mouth there we go I see it
yeah so here's what I think I don't know
you guys just said but let me come in
okay no I think it's hard to do without
adding more teams to create the dual
conference thing and I don't think that
they should be adding more teams right
now all right so let's say that the dual
conference thing is off the table for a
little bit and kind of returning to the
overwatch League model like when I
initially heard geolocation announced I
thought that they were like literally
and like I know the plan is to have all
that stuff built but like five-year
plans and eSports to mean don't mean
shit like I haven't seen a single
five-year plan followed I think ever my
life following you sports now so I guess
what I'd say is like dude are we fine
with just like slapping the name of a
place on something you mean like yeah
that's that's the New York TSM yeah cuz
that's how I mean like that's and they
do do things regionally like watch
parties and stuff but is that like an
acceptable form of geolocation is a name
do you think it hurts I don't think so
that's my point is like having washed it
be successful for overwatch League in
the fact that they haven't really really
followed up on it too heavily like is
that like just a fine place to start and
like if the league does continue to grow
and do fine then you're like yeah we
always planned on building stadiums but
in no way was it totally conditional on
the fact that this worked out you know
yeah I mean ovie do you think that it it
hurts to do and not have teams playing
in the arena I don't think it hurts but
I do think that there's I think there's
a point at which people will start to
maybe get restless I think you know for
the first year or two of the league I
think you get a lot of slack for a lot
of things and deservedly so right like
you're the expectation is that you're
learning new things and it's gonna get
better over time but you know if we're
not seeing actually games actually being
played in the cities that these teams
are geo-located with I could definitely
see some medium-term long-term
frustration but in the short term
absolutely not I don't see any harm I'm
so far only seeing good things yeah yeah
that's so I'm saying just just attach
names to everyone you just force them to
go to one fan meet in the offseason at
that City for their respective teams and
you know when League is dead in three
years no one cares or if it's continuing
to do fine then you kind of have to put
your money where your mouth is a little
bit yeah I feel like Leake is growing
though yeah I mean that's a separate
conversation I think there are elements
of it that are an illness of it that
aren't region like North America might
not look this
Japan for example or very way later
exactly yeah yeah yeah Vietnam is
exploding and playerbase it's huge
compared to n a which has tapered off
maybe maybe sushi thanks so much for
calling in to the show yes long as long
as one of them is about omen by HP this
show is sponsored by moment by HP and I
want to give a shout-out to my friend
Jared Jared
wait what up Jared well far away call ok
well one of those are more appreciated
than the other on the show and it's not
fair thanks so much sushi I really
appreciate your call all right have a
good one and shout out to Jared yeah
alright where were we
am I gonna do another person yes boba
Cola give to the sub to Hunter plant Fez
er subbed PBM Jam 311 re subbed Shepherd
received 4 months and says no Kelly they
thank goodness and boy can I agree with
that consulate 64 reserved says TSM TSM
real foxy gift to the sub to Monte
Cristo thanks real folks I'm sure he'll
appreciate that Cinna Friday reserved
and roto pagas so now we're all cut up
on the sub scar 94 is here scar were you
born in 1994
maybe alright well I had a little
there's a little detective work I just
did there to figure that out where he
called from Houston Houston ok well we
were just talking for him so much
somebody from Seattle who was
referencing Houston and the clutch base
why aren't you watching the Rockets game
isn't that there's no finished like ok
well people said that we were streaming
this at the same time so I'm not crazy
overlapped a little like the beginning
part of the show overlap with the ending
gotcha did they shoot a lot of Hoops I
guess yes Skaar what would you like to
talk about on the show today I like to
ask Ovie what it's like communicating
with non-endemic sponsors about a Marcus
bass that Darren really they probably
don't really know well about like maybe
like dr. pepper or you know like
advertisers and regulars that don't
really
you know much about these for space and
want to get in the sports area and need
to know how the market in yours function
yeah and just for the context for the
people that don't know the term
non-endemic we tend to think of things
like logitech and razer people who have
kind of a natural affinity towards
esports because they're you know somehow
directly involved with like gaming or
whatever is as endemic and we tend to
talk about things like Geico coca-cola
Dr Pepper Toyota as non endemics because
they they're sort of in the broader
sphere of is it's like a proper
definition for endemic and I haven't
really looked it up so I'm just gonna I
mean I think the general term is like
being of the system of the same system
like but it's not like an eSports term
it's like yeah right I knew that it's
meant like let me do it dictionary.com
at one side yeah no I just I just wanted
to match it up against you so I could
think that okay okay well my you know to
sleuth co-hosts really found among
particular people or in a certain area
yeah so I would argue Coke Zero in
pepper in some ways are endemic alright
let it's regularly for the purposes of
conversation my definition is what
applies OB go for it
yeah so look I think so it's been a
couple of different conversations right
I feel like when I when I stopped I
would say maybe two years ago when I was
starting to have these conversations you
know the conversations would be
something like kids watching other kids
play video games
that doesn't sound plausible what is
this like Miche random thing and then I
think you know as these sports have sort
of exploded more and more over the last
couple years I think you're sort of
seeing different more sophisticated
conversation so one conversation I've
had is like the very basic like why
would I want to be a part of people
watching other people play video games
like isn't that like people in their
mother's basement eating Cheetos that
doesn't align with my brand my brand is
like very premium it's not about Cheetos
and mothers basements and so I don't see
a fit I'd be like no no like actually
you know sell out stadiums I'm like wow
the pro players are very fit and you
know ESPN covers it and there's you know
prize fools bigger than that of the
Masters in golf and stuff like that I
think
nowadays are seeing more sophisticated
and so I think one version of the
conversation that I tend to have is with
brands who are like you know is it worth
the cost and also the risk because I
think a lot of not a ton of big brands
have come in to eSports yet and so I
think a lot of chief marketing officers
or CMOS can be a little bit nervous
about getting into something new and
less understood if you go if you just
put a couple million dollars in the NFL
or in you know sort of Good Morning
America spots or whatever something
that's really common and well-worn
there's no risk right but if you go an
eSport your kind of putting yourself out
there right your your your entire legacy
if that company might be defined by this
like crazy zany new strategy in eSports
so I think a lot of CMOS are a little
gun-shy and they really want to like
fully understand what's going on I had a
conversation with it with someone who
was really cool and ended up putting
some money into eSports where it was
really interesting the sponsor it was a
sponsor he's pretty familiar with all
this he's pretty familiar with all of
the sort of dollars in eSports he's
pretty familiar with you know the
demographics it's 18 to 34 heavily male
makes more money than the average the
median income college more likely to be
college educated than not and we're all
rich and all the eSports fans are rich
is what we're all intellectual smart
we're all intellectual making a lot of
money
the point being relative to the general
population that's one of the reasons why
advertisers are so interested to get in
there and so I mean that it's like that
classic set right like the average
baseball fan viewers 55 NFL's in the 40s
the NBA's low 30s and eSports it varies
based on title but around you know 20s
for sure low 20s in most cases so
anyways yeah I think those conversations
are really interesting it depends on the
brand sponsor but just a quick anecdote
I was giving I was talking to Brandon
Hughes circa like yeah but we already
reach a bunch of 18 to 34 year olds I
don't see the point
like with traditional sports stuff right
but the 18 to 34 year olds who are
watching like the NFL aren't necessarily
the same 18 34 year olds who are
watching hot line league and that
was really interesting to him he was
like wait you're telling me there's like
this whole group of you know young
people who don't consume any of the
content that we advertise it I was like
yes that is one of the reasons why
eSports is so interesting because a lot
of these folks generally consume
traditional media they're not watching
cable they're not watching the ballgame
necessarily and a lot of people do but
I'm just saying that there's a I think
there's a pretty large body that don't
and so anyways they ended up doing an
activation with someone that I think
we're that I think is pretty cool so
yeah just cuz it me right I said
something pretty cool trap oh I have two
questions for we'll be following up on
this the first one is like what's the
funniest like most awkward conversation
you've had with a brand about this
foreleg they just didn't get it and I
hope you like you don't have to burn any
bridges or say who it is I just like
there has to be some like kind of
meeting where you just like walked in
there and like within a couple minutes
like these people have no fucking clue
what I'm talking about
let's see for me personally okay two
stories one I've heard secondhand and
one for me personally for me personally
there's a story where we I went to talk
to a brand and they more or less were
like why would we want to market to
basement dwellers eat Cheetos and I was
like oh god I was like this meeting like
within as soon as they said that
statement I was like this meeting is a
waste of time like there's no there's no
way and I said well the best I can do is
make use of this like remaining 30
minutes to like educate them a little
bit and like show them a few you know
video clips and pictures and maybe start
to make them curious but no way you're
gonna take someone from eSports fans or
basement dwellers that you know are
essentially homeless - wow this is an
exciting and dynamic new form of
entertainment that I want to be a part
of the other one is pretty funny wait
real quick is there ever like a like a
little bone in your body where you just
like to fuck these people stay away from
our like thing you like you know
closed-minded you know you don't get us
did you ever just like wanna fuck with
them a little bit you know it's
interesting not so I totally get that
temptation and I was actually curious if
I'd feel that way but I've started I
sort of begin to realize that like come
like these large brands like there are
enormous corporations whose primary
business is not
advertising right their primary business
is making you know Ho Hos or making cars
or making air conditioners or whatever
it is that they do and so this the the
what they're doing on marketing is like
you have to be kind of patient right
because it's not their core business
it's not what they do and also a lot of
times this is something I didn't know
like a lot of these companies actually
change CMOS pretty often and so the
person who you're talking ml being chief
marketing officer like the person in
charge of all these budgets and and
giving a thumbs up and everything I've
actually I think you just can't take it
personally you can't really think of it
like this company doesn't like eSports I
think it's more like this person who
controls marketing doesn't like eSports
but like that sounds pretty personal to
me well that person might not be there
in two years literally had that
situation where I had a conversation
with a brand they were super not
interested super didn't get it spoke to
them like a year and a half later there
was someone new the person was super
dynamic super just in eSports and ended
up at least exploring it and so yeah I
think this notion of like like I don't I
just don't know that really helps anyone
and you know as a fan you know I think
most fans don't think about it as much
but you know I think for everyone else
the industry we're all aware right that
like we need its eSports is amazing
entertainment product but we need to
have the financial lifeblood to keep the
lights on pay players salaries justify
publishers making investments help teams
run operations all that good stuff and
so no I never take it personally I just
see it as an opportunity to or just to
hope that like you know that's not
poorly but I hope down the line either
there's a new CMO or this person changes
their minds what is the second story yes
it happened to a friend that you heard
about a brand that like just didn't get
it and there's like a funny funny
meeting oh yeah yeah basically the BRIT
the the person was presenting the brand
and they were describing counter-strike
they're trying to get a counter shake
sponsorship and they should I don't know
why they would put this in a deck but
they showed like they you know they
basically show basically the person
sort of in weather like yeah I still
deceased what stuff and then they saw
like a terrorist like blow away cop
within a K and they were like oh my god
like get out of my office
it was like they got kicked out of the
meeting I mean I think they were not in
the moment but from what I hear they're
just more or less like no absolutely not
never will never invest in this and it
sounds like eSports is not for us which
is like yeah that's like the
counter-strike problem right yeah I mean
look I mean I think like Turner's done
some clever things but you know like
when you play csgo like when you set off
the bomb the terrorists win like they
don't do that right they like cut that
bit of VO and it's right they call them
C C T's and T's but at the end of the
day do you do the ski mask blowing
always a cop with an 8k like that's
pretty hard to sell the sponsors yeah
yeah speaking of selling sponsors you
ever feel like marketing towards the
gamer demographic is harder than
marketing towards B like more mainstream
demographic because I personally feel
like gamers are more concerned about
like the ideas of selling out and like
are more cynical and skeptical around
products maybe I don't know if that's
just how I feel about things or if
that's that's a bigger gamer kind of
like sentiment ya know go for it
I also not something similar to what
Mark was saying about like eSports fans
and social media and like how brands
would find a more difficult maybe to
reach out to eSports fans versus know
like an NBA or NFL fan yeah and you know
to some extent I think that's actually a
function of age as much as anything like
I'm not sure that it's necessary like
NFL fans are drastically different from
eSports man I feel like I would venture
to say that like seventeen-year-old NFL
fans are probably not probably more
similar to 17 year old eSports fan than
they are 60 year old NFL fans right like
I think yes mark I agree with you but I
think that's not part of that is
definitely gamers but I think part of it
is like I think younger people in
general are harder I think we're much
more jaded we're much more aware of when
we're being marketed to and so sort of
like have you ever had a stain that you
can't remove well yeah crazy
don't cleaning fluid I feel like it's
just sort of a meme right if like people
our generations been marketed to since
you know since birth and so I think it's
harder to market to us brands that do it
well or either like Mimi or jokey or
like self-aware like Arby's right they
had this great tweet the other day
someone is making fun of them for like
making anim references to try and sell
roofies sandwiches and so they tweeted
like haha here's the man awaiting a buy
some roast beef sandwiches like it's
good to do but that's you know probably
harder than putting together like a
standard 30-second spot Jake's the
cheesy new beef sandwich at Arby's or
whatever so yeah I think it's harder but
honestly this is a problem that they're
gonna have to solve long term anyways so
why not get an early headstart with
these words yeah the only the only thing
I would say is it's I think it's it's
easier and harder it's harder in the
sense that there I think
so what Obi was saying the viewers
eSports viewers are far more aware of
what is happening and more cognizant and
thinking about like the the transaction
like the marketing transaction that is
happening that can be both good and bad
because if you fuck up they're gonna
hate it if you if you nail it they're
gonna really love and support it know
what go ahead oh I was gonna say you
know what that's exactly that's an
extremely great point as a follow-up
it's like it's it's a there's a higher
entry cost in terms of like brain power
because we're not putting far that's
sorry that sounds awful like
understanding the market
yeah right like yeah I think it's not I
think it's gonna be harder to
accidentally resonate with you sports
fans but if you do it's great right like
people I've seen people shout like do
Arby's chance or t-mobile chance or
toyota chance in eSports crowds like
thunderous entire arenas I've been to a
lot of NBA games I've never heard an
entire rina-chan to sponsors name been a
lot of colorful games never heard that
so I think it's sort of like hard to get
hard to get their affection but once you
do like a sports fan are super loyal
people tweeting like hey I bought a
$4,000 HP computer because I was hot you
know hot line League and I'm like
goddamn like I would not buy a $4,000
computer without
you know some pretty serious need but
this person really loves Travis I don't
skaara 94 thank you so much for calling
in thank you for having me Cheers
well time for our ad it's time to talk
about our sponsor labraina sponsor that
has ever sponsored resonating with they
are the greatest sponsor to every
sponsor hotline league I say that I say
they have an all truthfulness and that's
owned by HP omen by HP you guys are
shouting them out on the twitch chat
right now I guess I get tweets from you
guys I see it and YouTube comments I see
it and reddit threads you guys get it
you guys get that owned by HP supports
us doing the show even if Mark hasn't
sent me a fucking invoice in two months
he's going to get paid eventually he
gets paid to do this show I get the
support of them and you guys support
them and somebody just subbed and said
loved the show won by HP cured my
disease thanks Travis so you guys get it
you guys get that they help support the
show that they make this possible
and that they help independent content
creators like myself and they don't just
help independent contra creators they
don't help shows like this they also
help teams you know CLG sponsored by
them they they support leagues like
overwatch league they've done they
sponsored events like the eSports are
sorry like the the video game awards
that happen at the end of the the year
last year they're they're doing a lot to
really help support the eSports and
gaming space it'd be really easy you
know like some some folks out there they
just buy banner ads or what these guys
really want to do a lot of stuff and
increase some cool stuff working on on
something with them right now that I'm
going to talk about but it's coming and
it's going to be cool yeah I probably am
not even supposed to say that probably
not even supposed to say that but doing
some cool stuff with them so anyway look
they
they help make this show possible doing
this on owned by HP gear have have a
laptop loved have have not had a bad
experience with them in any of the stuff
that they've given me so really
appreciate all the support that they
give and thanks to all you guys by the
way who shout them out on the show who
shot them out elsewhere who followed
them on Twitter if you're watching the
vaad you can follow them on Twitter
tweet of them say you appreciate their
support say anything as long as it's
nice to their Twitter account which I'll
put it in there and then also I will
drop it in the twitch chat right now if
you guys want to give them a follow they
got some cool content coming so anyway
thanks so much to owned by HP and thank
you guys all for supporting their
support of hot line League is there a
can someone like make a shirt that just
says like supported by omen by HP or
sponsored by there's probably some
copyright and trademark issues there but
it's just a name you know I'm not I'm
not saying it the thing right yeah all
right let's let me sell them I'm not
saying we sell them they have a legal
department I have to talk to you about
this one anonymously to you like what
are you just banned from ever opening
that box I'm wearing it around in public
look we're gonna we'll talk about this
off air
I'll talk hypothetically yeah I feel
like this vaad is gonna be played in
court one day mark yeah
sir I was under the influence anything I
say here yeah yeah and by the way
somebody gifted them a sub like a month
or so ago so I think that they they
might be a sub to this channel too who
knows
let's go ahead and move on to our next
call though if Mark wants to go grab
them that's their clothes my league
client cuz it made a ping noise because
somebody invited me Travis interview
gootecks please somebody in twitch chat
just says I I used to do a show with
gootecks that was very short-lived gets
it Owen by HP emo you guys are the best
[Music]
what's going on I'm waiting for you to
start the guys enters in here I missed
that mark you're so quick you did the
reveal before Travis did now it's all
there
I moved him out of the cult out of the
call I'm gonna bring him back in all
right okay as entos here on the Conn the
show right now is in to where he called
from oh wow I'm calling from LA I'm so
excited to be on here and you know it
sounds sarcastic it sounds like you're
not excited to be on no no no he isn't
la he goes to LCS oh yeah I've met him
uh zento good safe what do you want to
talk about on the show today zento
basically since we can't go back in time
and say that the ESPN Plus deal hasn't
happened and that riot should do
something different we need to face the
fact that it already happened and with
that said ESPN Plus needs to offer a
different experience as the crowd is
most likely going to be entirely
different because you're not going to
get these twitch viewers or these
YouTube viewers to switch over to this
ESPN Plus and pay a $5 subscription fee
just so they can watch it on a different
platform now with that said they might
you know offer some crazy overlay that I
can't even possibly imagine right now
but it's still like I said difficult to
imagine in the first place to revamp the
viewer experience so what should be done
is that they should offer a new friendly
stream because that is most likely going
to be their demographic and to do that
you have to have probably different
casters or a dedicated casting crew and
observers too because that's important
as well to focus on the the micro
aspects of the game you know say Ashe
using her W or like what the hell is
that hawk shot going across the screen
what does that do you know and then
there should be possibly segments that
like break down the mechanics of the
game
you know in between the games themselves
to explain what champions do what their
cooldowns are and what did generally
you're kind of making it a new friendly
stream yeah basically so first off this
is the first one when you said $5.00
this is the first one where I've
realized I don't really give a shit
about sports but $5.00 is a pretty good
deal for a speed plus I'm not gonna lie
am I crazy here I don't think you get it
for 99 and you get like live sports like
MLB MLS NHL oh it's a selection so it's
not all of them
you get 30 okay whatever anybody five
dollars pretty good $5 not that great
when it's available for free on a
seven-day trial Travis do it on air
after the show
well I then I can't really broadcast any
of that because it's copyrighted stuff
but no but you're broadcasting the
experience of signing up yeah it holds
in court
well not holding the court I'm pretty
sure II think lying oh he almost was a
lawyer it's close enough all right stage
three cases bring that up okay is this
really gonna go after Travis gaffer for
getting people to use their product for
free yes have I crossed him I heard he
was subtweeting me this week oh man mark
is just ruining their brand first
talking about I've been saying this for
warrants yes mark is a detriment to my
brand he wanted to sit on my face my
problem mark I wanted to make boxers
with our faces on them and I sit on my
face because that is I'm waiting for
Travis gap emerges a completely untapped
market is just not going after for some
reason let's move on so okay essential
my problem with all that is well okay
taking a step back talking about the
ESPN Plus stuff I don't think anyone's
gonna watch this shit
I don't think anyone's gonna watch ESPN
likely legends on ESPN Plus unless you
are a league of Legends fan and for some
reason it is easier to stream using the
ESPN Plus app to your like television or
whatever than it is use twitch I don't
think there's that many of those people
because like Slingbox and the bill to
the stuff on TV like all that stuff
already has twitch for the most part
nowadays I feel like and if it doesn't
by the way it has YouTube which streams
this as well so I don't think anybody's
gonna watch it well but but if the the
issue that I have is is you're
suggesting like okay well maybe there is
even in a world where there are people
who don't normally watch League of
Legends that are like oh I clicked the
little Eagle Legends thing because I
thought it was legends of basketball
that person is gonna like you're
spending so much money to create a
premium experience for somebody who's
probably not gonna watch very much of it
because you'd have to pay the different
casters you'd have to pay the different
broadcast thing all that stuff is going
to cost so much money that I don't think
it's worth it well then you realize okay
well how many different avenues of
creating new players does League of
Legends actually have when you look at
the game itself it's such a high barrier
of knowledge that it also puts a lot of
people you look at counter-strike for
instance it's a very easy game to
understand a lot of people that have
terrorist main because I'm not sure
that's actually understand the concept
of shooting but when you're when you get
in the game and someone's like you'll go
long go long I'm going to heaven no plan
to beat like to is no note there's
something more visceral about watching
grenade blow somebody up then watching
or playing yeah about watching okay yes
yeah questions csgo so you get a cross
demographic of both dota players a
league of Legends players and overwatch
players watching csgo in the majors and
stuff in the very big games right and
that's how you can get a a certain
amount of crossover because it's such a
low barrier of entry
of knowledge to be able to understand
the game well league of legends has a
bigger difficulty with that so with that
said you have this ESPN Plus which could
be this new Avenue and sure it's going
to tank in the beginning and it's going
to be somewhat of a money sink you could
say for rising up but in the end I think
it could generate a good amount of new
viewer base and new player bases well
too and I think that's the direction
that it should go because who the fuck
is gonna buy this subscription if they
already watch it on Twitter or YouTube
and they're already a league of Legends
player regardless well what will be the
bigger disappointment for Disney solo
week one or League of Legends on Ustream
plus I I just don't so so your argument
is that by creating like a new friendly
experience an ESPN Plus that you're
going to get potential newly Legends
viewers exactly so I mean because if
sorry mark and anyone if I'm a new
viewer and I can watch it on Twitch I
already know that I can watch it on
Twitch I can watch it on YouTube and
sure there is this also certain amount
of exposure that you need to be able to
know in the first place that this game
even exists right so if I'm already on
Twitch or I'm already on the gaming
section of YouTube most likely already
know what rating of Legends is right but
with ESPN's audience you may not even
know what the League of Legends actually
is so why would you cater this type of
demographic towards what we already have
within the broadcast which is you know
talking about okay this guy's going man
he's gonna rotate Oh yep he's gonna get
said jolted Oh BAM yeah he's already
locked up dead alright let's move over
to the other part of the map because we
already know this guys did really that's
that's not that great for a new viewer
experience which
most likely what you're going to get
from this ESPN plus C so I hear really
quickly before Marcos all I will say is
I think not all I will say but for now
all I will say is the most efficient way
of riot to get a legal legend spectator
is to convert an existing player I think
we would all agree that the the path of
least resistance for for League getting
a spectators converting a player I think
I think that it is far more efficient
for them to spend money on ads or new
experiences or like improve the
onboarding experience for new players
and try to bring those people into the
game and then convert them from that
game just being a spectator than it is
to get a 45 year old man who's
interested in watching MLB into watching
League of Legends Marco okay so LCS
viewer funnel coming from that is
probably just not gonna work out if
you're going for a new friendly
experience I just I can't say that being
the like the best strategy especially
for how much like Travis of the
resources it'll cost you but I do think
the idea of offering something unique is
a pretty decent approach like I don't
think like you said existing LCS fans
want a third place to watch the LCS on
you already have YouTube and twitch so
you need to offer a new experience and I
think one thing I would love if they did
was just like in this product PSP I
might not clear a company for it but I
would love a less professional approach
to the LCS because what the TCS has
showed and what some of these other
events have showed is like people love
that down-to-earth feel like the BTS
kind of stuff that they have and I think
ESPN also did a thing where they used to
go live on Facebook I think and they
would have like locodoco and someone
else and something else and doing like
no one watched a pole-vaulter
yeah Balter right but like I'm saying
like that's a better approach I think
than going for the new player funnel
like just because I don't think you're
gonna be able to get consistent LCS fans
by converting them from ESPN Plus
existing users that just though that
pathway just seems like it's a dead end
but
I do think you could take existing fans
of the LCS and give them a different
experience that that appeals to them
more and so I think hiring someone with
a really great personality to be like
kind of like that's the guy that's gonna
be like the face of the ESPN product or
something like that like Tyler won not
saying you should get Tyler won but
someone but you know I mean we're just
saying this is theoretical right because
we know that they're not gonna do any of
those stuff in fact they've they've said
specifically that they are not Trent
well sorry the context I was given for
this was not that they were trying to
pull that they saw Twitter or YouTube is
competitors and they were trying to
create a different experience that they
were actually trying to show this to a
broader audience which is what you're
referring to I sent oh I just I agree
with you and and with mark that this is
not but that's not a really that's not a
real thing especially if all you're
gonna do is show them what everyone
expects oh yeah I'm curious about your
take yeah question one what some mark
said that I really really really
actually wanted to mention at some point
this is a good time so for the first
thing yeah I mean look I think it's I'm
controversial to say that having some
sort of newbies stream experience would
be a good idea I think I'm not sure how
likely that is given that I think the
whole point of the band U is to try and
create a unique experience and so with
it being scaled down as much as it is
I'm not sure that we can expect
something super different for ESPN plus
I will say just anecdotally you'd be
surprised by how much people discover
content on channels that they're used to
it's like for example for me like this
is by no means data right this is just a
quick anecdote but like one of the
reasons why I got started getting into
anime was because it was on Netflix I
don't do crunchyroll I'm not a hardcore
anime person like there are plenty of
platforms where anime content exists but
I don't use those platforms I use like
more general stuff like Netflix but once
I started seeing how to make content
appearing on my Netflix those it welcome
to shop why not
I'm not saying necessarily that someone
Ovey Ovey
watching anime on Netflix is equivalent
to a 45 year old man and South Texas
right which is that like I think
traditionally it's been really the
overlap between players and
viewers I think in most people's minds
it's pretty close to one to one but I
will say that like you know for all
these traditional sports and also
eSports as example traditional sports
basically no one's playing touch
football after middle school even
earlier I'm not sure most people ever
play that game right but that doesn't
really affect viewership people continue
watching that game is fun enough to
watch
apparently that even long after people
have stopped playing it and the same
goes for basketball and soccer people
continue to watch the entertainment
product which i think is a model we
haven't seen yet but I also think like
premium eSports is pretty pretty young
and I think medium train that something
would not surprise me at all the second
thing about that is that I watch some
eSports that I cannot play like for
example csgo I am not good at csgo
I find it frustrating to play csgo
because a lot of the mechanics seem kind
of old to me relative to like neighbour
games like fortnight but that's not the
cure there I'm certainly bad at csgo
right I think that's my number one
problem
but I loved watching it I've watch i
watch a fair amount of CSKA content even
though you couldn't even though it's
very unlikely I would play it on any
given week then the viewership
experience is so compelling but I'll
watch it anyways
again that's not the same thing as a 45
year old hockey fan switching over to
League of Legends but I think there's
opportunities for people who you know
because it's in a channel they wouldn't
otherwise discover League they're not
watching twitch so watching ESPN I think
they could stumble across it okay so
this might open up another can of worms
and yeah and we don't have as much to
touch on yeah I was one other thing
about Mark which is that I actually
think that you know people have been
looking to riot blizzard I think well
people looking to derive for very long
time for sort of like premium sports I
think Blizzard is in that conversation
as well now or that has sort of like
taken a spot next to Ryan that
conversation both of them have like very
like traditional sports inspired type
leagues it's like there's teams it's
very structured yet professional
broadcasters what are the things I like
about fortnight is that some of the
concept you're seeing like for example
in Ninja Vegas it's interesting I've
heard a lot of people say that was in
eSports I mean look it was for those of
you that are familiar Ninja Vegas is
basically ninja you know top face of
twitch right now myth and a couple other
influencers going to Vegas playing with
a bunch of people in the audience of the
East Worth Serena in Vegas and the if
that was kind of interesting because it
was competitive they gave money to
people based on how well you
good but the focus was 100% on ninja at
all times like they the focus wasn't on
the competitive that I would see like
for the LCS the value proposition of the
LCS is hey future Ninh you get to see
the highest level of eSports play in the
world or in North America in your region
in the region fair enough
and that's you know sort of I think
overwatch The Ecstatic proposition as
well
Ninja Vegas was that was not the value
proposition that I proposition was hey
this is gonna be super entertaining you
mentioned the tiler Championship Series
I think it was that was also a similar
value proposition although that was much
a little bit more on Tyler sort of
amazing showman skills and less about
the games but with ninja Magus right
they just focused on ninja the whole
time they were casting him you know
there's a crazy gun fight going off in
the distance ten people in a normal
eSports tournament that's where the
camera would be but for this event the
focus is on the biggest characters not
on where the action is necessarily and
it did crazy viewership the concurrent
viewers for over 400k right that's
several times that you can expect to see
from a regular week of LCS or al I'm not
saying you should like change the LCS
and I'll answer like you know one person
battle royale situations but my point is
that your finger starved
I think there's opportunities for
eSports content that is not simply like
eSports version of the NFL or NBA that
could be really compelling and sure some
of that success is attributable to being
ninja being amazing and Fortinet being a
hot game but I really do believe that we
haven't seen the full potential of
formats that are less sort of polished
and a little more entertaining I was
having this conversation with Peter this
past week and that was exactly what I
was talking about because we were
talking about fortnight and he was sort
of disputing the idea that fortnight or
battle Royales could ever be true
eSports and for me I was just saying you
know like we we've spent so much time
and I think for good reason and I think
it's great created great products in the
eSports base looking at traditional
sports as inspiration but but maybe
there are especially as we get into
games that are less easy to like
five-on-five game that is something that
could totally exist in traditional
that's right like five-on-five
basketball whatever a hundred people on
an island slowly like diminishing
themselves every man for himself there's
no corollary for that you you you know
there are like you know the sort of like
though the big brackets or whatever but
there's no like simultaneous so so I
think as we look at games that are very
entertaining to watch and are fun and
captivating and don't land themselves to
like a traditional sports corollary like
there's a lot of room to like really
innovate on what the experience is like
who said that looking at basketball
football and baseball is the best way to
figure out how to watch out how to make
the most entertaining video game washing
experience well see and and that's the
argument which i think is a little bit
disingenuous from your side which is
that Dario you're you're giving all you
want not I let me give you some homework
I sent oh I was talking about what a
sports guy is that you made a comparison
between eSports and traditional sports
now the difference is is how does
eSports make its money versus how does
traditional sports make its money
traditional sports makes its money by
viewership by people not necessarily
playing the game
how does riot make their money they make
more money by people playing the game
than they do people watching it so sorry
one quick question that is a very
interesting idea that you've just
brought up for which we could do an
entire another episode of hot let me
just say this when you say riot I
understand that you're referring to not
just one monolithic company right
riot eSports right that team might have
different priorities about the statement
you just said relative to like the riot
board like the CEO or like riot North
America the people who are in charge of
playing the game and the teams whose
success metrics are judged by how many
people play League of Legends probably a
little bit different from the team whose
success metric is judged by how many
people are watching League of Legends or
how much they can demonstrate that
people who watch claim or
or spent more money in game so when you
say like riot feels this way that is
true at some level but understand that
like the priorities within the company
are different they're not all
necessarily just that oh well we're
making money overall so it's fine to you
know I hear some people say oh yeah like
you know right eSports it's totally a
marketing ploy and it doesn't matter if
they lose money as long as they can
demonstrate that they're making a lot as
long as they can you know get more
people to spend our p.m. game I'm not
sure first of all riot has never come
out and said that they were that they
view their eSports program like that and
you know without getting too much into
it I think if you got you know maybe
next time you get chopper on the show
you can ask Travis but I'm pretty sure
he would give you a very different
answer from that I think they want it to
be sustainable they do want the revenue
models to come they don't have to be
exactly a traditional sports but I don't
think they want it to be like yep
eSports this is huge money sink but it
results in people spending RP so it's
fine I don't think that's the way a riot
eSports thinks about their product at
all okay yeah I mean that's fair it's
like I said this is going to be a can of
worms that I opened up and it was a
longer conversation but that's my
ideology I have multiple different ideas
and to why that's the case that it is
and why ESPN plus should go in the
direction that you know I think it
should because of these reasons but
that's that's another topic that would
take a long-ass time so ok hey thank you
so much I resent you for calling in you
definitely drove good conversation yeah
all right let's get out of here by
moving on we got a couple of subs I'll
give a shout-out to oh just actually
just one one special person uber lawn
gnome who resub and said loved the show
Owen by HP cured my disease thanks we
gave him a shout-out earlier but now we
got their name
we got sue Pikachu pika on the show sue
biggest sue be good I know we've got
Emily on the show Emily were you calling
from Los Angeles Los Angeles this is
definitely rant yes we don't we don't
give less names on the show oh sorry
I don't even know I hope it's not yeah
she wrote something called The
Fountainhead
if you've ever what do you want to talk
about what Hidden Valley
what do you anyway there was so I wanted
to pick Obi's brain a bit on riots it
kind of goes into you what is NJ I was
talking about actually in the previous
call um there was a article that came
out on Sports Business Daily that kind
of covered a lot of the sponsorship like
problems and successes in price it was
primarily North American centric China's
like its whole different thing as you
guys know but he sports next big mission
went over sponsors yeah just post into
it to Ben Fisher he doesn't know he was
so watch this show he does not really
interesting I think it touched on a lot
of things and one of the things they I
wanted to bring up I guess is that the
LCS audience and how durable is they
also to mention that the sales team
might be under staff but also that it
doesn't generate as much a sponsorship
revenue but the game itself generates
a lot more that they say 1.6 billion
annually and in game purchases and has a
luxury of being choosy with brands now I
guess my disconnect with that and what I
want to understand a bit better is if
I'm a franchise owner right and I I see
that the spam tech deal went through so
maybe I was counting on some of that
money being shared among my team or I
was counting on them picking up some big
sponsors of which only State Farm has
happened so far I'm not seeing that same
revenue from the game itself right I
guess I wanted to see it
how much nobody knows about like how how
much in-game stuff if at all it helps
out like franchise owners or where
franchise owners are looking to get that
money because right now the LCS in North
America doesn't have a lot of the ideas
how how will franchise owners recoup how
will they make this a profitable venture
given that we don't have sponsorships
and there's not really any in guy in
game there's very limited in game
monetization well also to that point
like is that I mean it's re really
quickly set your question Emily so for
example over in China like they have
brands everywhere like Doritos sponsors
these like cut-ins
there's another energy drink that
sponsors like players ragging on each
other while they commentate their own
games
there's the mercedes-benz Man of the
Match and the team's came out in
mercedes-benz yea our Jeep was like they
had an AR Jeep on the stage at MSI I
think in 2016 yes they had Jeep last
year mark what were you gonna say
emily's point it's not just like because
even if Wright did have that stance that
Obie was saying they probably don't have
like oh this is fine for us we still
it's just like keeps people around to
watch the game and all that stuff and
play the game like Emily was just saying
the franchises don't feel that way the
players probably don't feel that way
yeah like Rick Rick Fox and who Nena we
don't have to we just get people playing
the game you don't have to worry about
this right you're gonna pay us you
increase the base salary to a whopping
75,000 now from 25,000 after years you
know like I don't think they're
satisfied if it's like well at least the
major company is raking in 1.6 billion
it by the way is it a bad idea for me to
ban awfully for my twitch chat cuz now
the entire twitch chats just talking
about anime so I my options I can no
wait oh here it is time out user yeah
how long does that timer out for well
well it's in twitch chat and I think
she's a mod so she can go ahead ovie how
are how is riot going
these teams and LCS if they can't make
any money well first of all I've been a
big fan of your writing since back in
the day so yeah very cool to meet you as
far as your question yeah so look I
think those are really excellent really
tough questions I think I think they're
probably some team owners that have had
those conversations with their
counterparts at riot I think I will say
like going into this if you're a team
owner you know I think riots
traditionally been very Judy some would
say judicious others would say slow
slash not on the ball on selling
sponsorships whichever way you want to
look at it I don't think there's a ton
of revenue or Katan of sponsorships
coming in to na LCS so I don't know that
anyone's really you know gobsmacked that
it's been slow going so far I definitely
I'm sure that they were hoping for
faster momentum I'm sure riots doing
what they can a few I think I was
looking at the riot career page not too
long ago and they had like a number of
job offers job openings open I also know
that they're working with a third-party
agency to try and pursue sponsorship
sales so I think they're definitely
doing what they can I don't know that I
think it's interesting to look at
overwatch League as a counterexample and
say like hey you know like you're
looking at a lot of interesting
non-endemic folks are coming in for you
know pretty sizable dollar amounts and
maybe those are sort of tests but you
know for League of Legends which is the
most consistent most ad sports league
why can't they do at least that well if
not better that's a nicer linear I can
give you to be totally honest I'm not
totally sure why that is I think I'm
sure the owners are asking right the
same question I don't know that owners
are necessarily in like a catastrophic
state because of that I think you know
for those eSports teams that are so able
to leverage the impressions that they
get and sort of like the brand the brand
amplification that they get from being
on that LCS broadcast it's probably
still worth it but you'd probably be a
better question to ask a team owner I
mean I've talked to a number of team
owners who initially weren't should'
getting into the LCS some of which got
in and there's actually a question I had
which is like hey you know monetization
has traditionally been a little slow not
just for League by the way but I think
across
I don't know that anyone overwatch
league right 420 million dollar
franchise fee you're not making your
money back in year one obviously and so
I think I'd answer I've heard from a
number of different teams is basically
that we want to use this like eSport we
want to use our our position and a
franchisee sports league to have
something super stable that can't
disappear in a year because of you know
being relegated from a league or because
this star player decides to leave us and
that sort of helps us you know raise
more money get more awareness get more
get more buy-in from brands and so I
think those benefits are a little bit
harder to track but I think for some
teams at least the stability of being in
franchise league still has a bunch of
benefit even if the revenue levers
haven't been working yet for the way
they I think they're probably expected
to but you raise a good point I want to
sugarcoat it revenue has been slow going
so far team owners got fucked that's
what I'll be saying I'm just kidding I
just whenever somebody get such a good
descriptive job of answering something I
love summing it up in something that's
completely overwatch leaguers overwatch
League is the Ponzi scheme because you
buy in at 20 million you make it look
great and then you get cut of the 35
million that they charge the next teams
and those guys get in then they make it
they're like oh everything's great you
get they help get in some people at 50
million than those people split yeah
what's that guys that make him a Bernie
Madoff yeah Bobby Kotick Bobby Kotick is
Bernie Madoff remember you were on the
show all right tweeted I don't know just
kidding just kidding we're just kidding
this is a joke all right just a meme
we're just moving so just it's just
amazing to me me Emily
I got nothing for you I actually don't
have like you asked a question I think
everyone should be asking right now
which is just like how are these teams
gonna make back their money riot isn't
doing a good job of monetizing I think
if I'm a team owner right now I'm
pushing right very heavily on this and
I'm saying like look if you're not gonna
figure this out like it's hard think
about the amount of money we've heard
these team owners are paying to their
players like not only is it the 10
million that they paid to get into this
league it is the amount of money they
have to keep paying every year and is
that money gonna go down if they feel
like they're not ever gonna make it back
right if they're I mean I personally
separate conversation I think pro
players a little overpaid right now
anyway but I think we unless riot starts
solving this revenue thing we will start
I think to see these teams shifting some
of their investments and money that
they're spending on league in other
games and in other areas and I think
that that would be oh they'll be really
bad so I think it would be good if if I
can figure this out so one I think it's
also probably fair to say that like
credit to riot when they were out in the
market right actually it's almost it's
almost incorrect to say they're out in
the market when they opened up the
application process and got swamped with
you know basically every professional
sports teams and dozens upon dozens of
theses family offices former eSports
owners pros you name it they did I think
riot was pretty humble in how they
presented the pitch for the NLCS you
know not to take a shot for watching but
like to kind of call up Morgan Stanley a
little bit some of the research and
modeling that they did on how people
were gonna make their money back and
overwatch Lee was suss let's put it that
way for those I don't know
oh he's referencing a report that said
that overwatch League would make 100
million in the first year I think I
can't recall that exact stat but there
were definitely some numbers about like
filling up live venues and ticket sales
being a extreme you know immediate
revenue driver that I think are
optimistic some would say misleading I
look I don't have a strong opinion about
it what I will say is that it's
definitely not what I would call humble
let's just put that way and so I think
you know riots pitch coming out I think
they didn't sort of come out and say hey
we're gonna send you know make all these
crazy spawn
deels we're gonna do this a night I
think it was sort of like hey this is
the LCS this is sort of speaks for
itself you're applying to get into our
league we will you know explain our
vision to you and you can decide whether
you want it or not I'm not saying that
that means that they have no obligation
I guess I'm just saying that I don't I
hope no one feels like baited and laid
out in that in terms of like sponsor
monetization mark do you wanna I don't
have much to chime in there I just
wanted to go check corn gates because
everyone was talking about how overwatch
League is Bitcoin
I heard crypto hit another giant stumble
it's going up and down Emily Emily it's
going up and then down and then up and
then down Emily are you still hearing
hey y'all hear me yeah can you please
provide us with Emily's anime Pick of
the Week zero which is good but again I
can't recommend it unless you've seen
the first one which one will make
absolutely no sense zero yeah I tried to
watch steins gate and like the time well
I think it's pretty apparent there's
time travel some think it's a spoiler
but I gave up after an episode and a
half it was it's really weird we're like
you have to get through really obnoxious
like meme culture shit for the first
eight episodes so that then they can
start pulling off all the time
shenanigans and it's okay eight episodes
is I think it's around eight pretty high
entry Costard it's like it's like the
first arc of a movie basically yeah the
first part is really slow and like I
don't blame people for frames because it
is it's a slow it's a slow starter yeah
it's 26 for the first season the really
first show right or is it shorter than
that I think it's yes two core so it's
like 26 ish 25 26 Emily thank you so
much for coming on the show you cut out
but I sound like you said thank you
thank you yes sorry yeah have a good one
I think she's
she says something more like fuck you
Travis and then we just heard yes at the
end thanks mark that's what I needed
today all right
public Allah gifted us up to Avila me
congratulations to Avila made baller
yeah boba Cole has gifted like 60 him
and real foxy of compete they've gifted
somewhere between 50 and 60 subs to my
channel each nobody he runs a wonderful
McDonald's franchise in Hawaii oh well
Owens it operates paddock has reserved
for five months HP by omen sponsors
Avila is sotl anime time I'll invite p4
stuff secondly we have on the show all
right you got to help me out with this
one it's first try kazakh word Kazakh
Kazakh quirt what Jesus sounds dirty
can we okay we're gonna I'm gonna call
you cause cause cause what were you
calling from I'm from st. Louis okay I
don't know where that is but it's
somewhere it's like 30 minutes used to
st. Louis oh yeah no I don't really know
where that is either somewhere in the
middle of the country I think all right
I just kind of grew up all those Chicago
st. Louis the flyover States Travis over
you're from one of those right nobody
cares about the Midwest ever yes
certainly certainly not riot because
what sick what do you want to talk about
talk about the clash and like the
failure of it and how I didn't think it
was that much of a big deal I'm like the
popular consensus seemed like from
reddit and especially the board's the
clash crash of 2018 yes so what as we
asked you know as we're getting to this
were you planning on playing clash yes I
had a team of five already okay
who were the five let us know just my
friends from school
cool names or something like I want it
to be like an Ocean's eleven type
breakdown doesn't make sense like what
all five I'm gonna show up on the show
you know cuz if you don't have a good
answer for this let's move on okay so
yeah they're people how how much do you
play league right now like what kind of
player are you would you say I just got
off of school so I'm starting to I
didn't play very much at the end of
school because the finals and whatnot
but I just got into playing ranked a ton
so I've just been standing out great
games trying to get to go about flexing
so you're relatively active player then
yeah okay anyways go ahead sorry I just
want to get so give give your spiel okay
so everyone on the board and stuff they
got very mad it seemed like that riot
messed up the clash but I honestly
expected it and I feel that everyone
else should have expected it to this
Jade this change from like I don't think
it was that big of a deal to my
expectations were low and riot met them
okay continue sorry keep going keep
going like these type of things like
it's always been not very good and like
I played clash during the beta and like
my team and the beta had like we permit
we got into queue but there was like a
massive like failure to like put us in
like an actual game so we just sat there
for like an hour talking to like riot
support and when I mean end up not being
able to place like mic stations for
clash were based on that and like I
don't know people just like are
oblivious to right at this point but
like the small indie company meme is
just in full force at this point I don't
know where to take this call I think I
think it's interesting that you had
troubles because the only things I saw
about clash through like the beta stuff
was like this was sick like success
cases and people were like talking about
that stuff I didn't know that there were
issues with the beta to be honest like
somebody was saying that games weren't
starting and and then they were
automatically giving people defeat
especially the first day like we we have
a lot of issues and the discord for the
clash beta there was
a lot of people having issues and even
the second day where it was a bit better
there was still a lot of problems with
it and well I overall I feel about a lot
of the people on the boards and rather
than one not just like like I feel like
they expected a lot more than they
should have at the clash and and that
and let's you literally feel that way
because you just feel like riot over
promises and under delivers like okay
what's what are other examples of that
Josiah kurios not that I want you to
keep shitting on them but I I honestly
feel like they have a generally a pretty
good track record so it's interesting to
hear this take from you yeah generally
but like just like compared to other
events from other games I feel that
sometimes riot under delivers just I
can't think of anything specific right
now but I feel like there's definitely
been cases in the past where some things
have not gone as planned I think a
massive one has to be the client right
did the new client was just when it
started shit like there was no feature
parity and like you just couldn't do any
of the things that you could do on the
older client like I remember huge
problems well I think they by the time
they officially released it cuz I know
that you could switch to it as a beta
thing but I thought that even now
feature parity isn't even there as far
as I'm aware really I thought so but
like I know for like after launch
everyone was just like with like where
the fuck is the feature like I I can't
do certain things like you couldn't buy
skins that you feel like a champion that
you were about to play the way you could
before like I know that one was one like
you couldn't find chat rooms like chat
rooms were just dead on the new client
for a little while if I remember
correctly like I remember that I
remember the client having a lot of
problems I think you're remembering
correctly because I also remember the
client being buried not like not having
a many of the features that they said
that they're going to work on like when
because of the new clients even now I
thought there's some things that they
still haven't implemented that I feel
that are very important such as in-game
voice chat and ranked especially is one
of the major things that comes to mind
because I consider every other eSports
title has it in their game and has had
it for years yeah I think so one of the
interesting things so I you know
everybody knows Kelby is on the show
very frequently he's a very big dota
player now used to play a lot more
leagues though is still very interested
in link as an eSport that's why so he's
on the show but it's really interesting
to compare riot versus valve in this way
because I think right kicks ass at so
many things right like the amount of
awesome marketing content that they put
out for new champions and different you
know like the videos that they released
the different community content they
create the way they engage with the
community oftentimes is so transparent
and open their their player support
stuff is great engineering consistently
seems to have been a weakness for them
as a company because they just feel like
like the amount of if you if you look at
valve
they suck at some of those areas where
riot is really good and yet the they
create amazing feature releases and
amazing stuff in their their game and
their client and they almost kind of
goes back not not to make the whole
episode about it but kind of to the BAM
tech thing right where we were we were
told we were gonna get this awesome new
tech implemented for spectators and
viewers and them that doesn't ends up
happening so I know it is kind of
interesting that maybe they fail a
little bit on the engineering side to
steal Obie's take you know right it's a
big company and I'm sure some projects
succeed more like some teams are better
about than I was like I feel like the
the tech team at riot I don't know if
this is the right term but like the once
you like helped change like Internet
backbone and like yeah yeah across like
network operations yeah yeah those guys
sound like they just like fucking cured
cancer level of like problem solving
when like I read their posts I'm just
like what the hell are you guys
magicians so I don't think it's fair to
say like right as a whole has that's
probably fair that's fair
yeah I just I just wish that because
within a company like know you're every
no can you meet yourself on this sounds
good oh sorry some yeah just out of
add-on thoughts and marks raised it no
company that's functional is never gonna
like call out individual teams like
that's a really shitty thing to do right
like yeah
hey guys like the the back-end team
nailed it on clash but like the
front-end team really fucked it up and
that like no one's gonna do that and so
like
like riot you know like any classic
company is like gonna take it as a
company and not like identify individual
people but yeah like of course we're
Riot Games where it went
clash where it went wrong well we put it
all on Louis Louis he's been with us for
three years and he's had some good
successes here and here and here but his
code was not on to stuff Louis fucked
this one up for you guys because people
will insult the players do you remember
that I do remember that I can say very
firmly that was not a unanimous opinion
fallout from that messaging yeah it was
people allowed to I mean people have
opinions right and I think it's
important to not like I think it's
important to try and create there's a
good principle of game design that like
you want to create experiences that are
not neutral like oftentimes things that
are really oftentimes experiences that
one group of people really like another
group really hate and that's okay as
long as you've got the balance right but
you know obviously disagree at the
balance on that particular question but
they got it right in the end so building
unlike the previous lots about like them
being like wizards of coding yourself
there was an issue a couple I don't know
how long it was but I remember there was
something about them disabling the
Grange for like a week because of some
recall bug and they published a very
in-depth post on like what the issue was
and what they did to solve it and I hope
there's something like that for the
clash issues it's going more in depth
because I thought that was very
interesting like yeah like on their like
fixing the spaghetti code or whatever
that they have I think a lot of the
problems might also be like their
underlying spaghetti code from like the
years like maybe bad practices in the
beginning of the game compared to like
how much time other companies have had
to like like if we're fine they're
coated with new iterations like csgo or
dota 2 or whatnot have the building on
like CS source or dota 1 yeah in 2022
when they come out with their second
game I'm very excited to see if well
leaks did you know did you see there's a
well that's that's when the Alpha is it
doesn't actually come out of data until
2024 Niccolo the CEO which people been
it's kind of interesting MSI they kind
of touted the Niccolo who's been at
write for a long time
took over CEO duties and they didn't
ever really they referenced he was gonna
be president and like that one post at
the end of last year but they anyway he
did a bunch of interviews with French
people at MSI because he's French and he
he said that yeah that they were working
on multiple games but they've been
working on multiple games for years and
I think they've cancelled multiple games
for years OVA will not have any physical
or mental reaction to this but I don't
know I they've been saying that they've
been working on multiple games per year
so I that statement was kind of relevant
to me hopping back to the actual point
but Kass here I think so you're someone
who sounds like you're pretty invested
in League of Legends already anyways and
I can't say for certain but I imagine
that for people who were kind of
teetering on there like involvement with
legal legends like how seriously they
wanted to play and they saw clashes cool
new game modes maybe get them back into
at the game having that flop was
probably pretty disastrous from Ryan's
perspective I think I mean the amount of
money they spent marketing the thing
like they probably hyped it up more than
any other feature in what years yeah
probably I mean like they haven't
released that many new features right
like rotating game mode maybe like they
haven't launched a new mode and forever
so like I saw I think I saw a comment on
reddit or whatever said that that the
dude got like his four friends back in
the lead try to play the game mode or
whatever and like I feel that yeah like
like rate flex like you could play that
like my friends and I we just played
ranked flex afterwards and just sort of
messed around on that but like I don't
know it's not the same like ranked flex
is this like I don't think cesspool is
the right word but it's just like
recently it's the right word okay great
it's just not a great experience
and I think like having a more
structured feel close to the LCS for
some fans would have been a really cool
thing to do and then the fact that just
flopped and like some fans like you
probably aren't they're kind of taking
it on the chin like it's right you know
what you expect but for some people
might have been like this is gonna be
the mode like I'm so excited I'm
cancelling plans for the weekend because
some a lot of people did that you know
Memorial Day weekend this is gonna be
sick I had a lot of plans
Myra's have a lot of plans I actually
was the one who unplugged the crash the
clash servers because I was camping so
really all this should be directed at me
I just didn't and by the way we should
say as as fun as it's easy to poke fun
at them for this but yeah but
responsible like they must yeah yeah
exactly that's what I was gonna say is
that riot they've got to be feeling
really really bad about this stuff right
like lots of conversations where where
it went wrong how bad it is how
apologetic like it's you've probably
been working on this for a long time so
I look I don't think it's something
where they hand this project off to an
intern and when it doesn't work they
just shrug I I'm sure they feel
apologetic about it but I think it's
also fair for a fans to feel frustrated
about it so and it sounds like you don't
even frustrated because you know an
interesting take on on Riot Games cause
thank you so much for calling it I hope
honestly feel free to call on it in the
future cuz you were I liked your take
it's just sort of like I'm just I'm not
disappointed because I expect nothing
thank you so much Travis's favorite
personality type just slightly
disappointed yeah that's that's how much
my friends feel about me so that's why
you have the old sales like the old
captain look the sea captain whose boat
sank on this last ship motor blast
mission mark have you seen budget course
man no someone else's frost was talking
about that last week yeah yeah I really
like it when I think not as good so
maybe you know I think
yeah it's funny you say that because you
when I saw season 1 of that show you
reminded me so much of season 1 Bojack
after season when a lot less so but
season 1 Bojack man me mark
oh you yep oh yeah I very relate to
season 1 Bojack I'm famous and just
struggle with that you know we may have
watch different last last caller yes by
the way thank you to real foxy one for
gifting accept to Fox evil and lol
Bulbasaur whoo reset for two months and
so thanks for the two months of
entertainment beginning the next color
here in just a moment you are watching
hot line League galva tricks 93
I'm gonna call you gallop is that okay
that is perfectly fine gal were you born
in 1993 I was well okay gal where you
calling from well I am calling from
Pennsylvania Pennsylvania
Bradford so it's pretty much in New York
it's like three hours directly north of
Pittsburgh almost the New York border I
forget how long that state is that
doesn't mean I'm Sylvania border so many
things that you don't realize yeah
that's crazy
yeah and like for what I do I Drive
around all the Northeast so I can are
you comfortable telling us what you do
no actually I guess I could I guess you
don't have to I was just curious he's
saying you drive around a lot you're a
drug dealer no no I work in the oil
field oh wow cool I didn't know there
are oil fields in Pennsylvania today I
learned oh yeah yeah actually it's all
natural gas released I guess you oh very
cool well hey what do you want to talk
about on the show so I guess really jump
into pre split stuff with with Team
Liquid I kind of want to talk about how
I think they're totally gonna win all of
summer just like they did spring so and
then disappointed world's just like they
did a mess I know actually that was
where I was gonna
with I don't think the disappointment
was as bad as a lot of people talk I
know there's been you know back and
forth on what was it just bad was it as
bad that kind of stuff but I think one
of anaise biggest problems traditionally
has been mental fortitude like a lot of
times you see them come in and they they
kill it or do decently in the first set
of games and then just fall apart
towards the end you're saying in a or
teamliquid yeah okay so so sorry what's
your take so your take is team liquids
gonna kill it in summer and then they
won't they won't have the mental
fortitude to do much in worlds no they
will so they will is that they had much
better yeah sure sure they fell apart in
the beginning but they basically came
back I mean sure yeah they still didn't
so this is an interesting take it's an
interesting take because I don't think
Team Liquid is going to do better
well first off your your take is
interesting because they showed a a
terrible amount of mental fortitude with
Olli subbing himself out like that is I
agree bottom-of-the-barrel
mental fortitude like what is the
opposite of fortitude so I really mental
frailty with that being on one player
right but the fact that the team then
brings him brings him back in and turns
it around almost completes the
turnaround and really pulls out a lot of
solid games to watch shows a lot yeah me
my concern is I know Marc and Ovi I
think we'll have maybe more interesting
takes one time I went to Shake Shack so
I I had Shake Shack right before hotline
League today and it reminded me of a
time at the start of the split now it's
doner legitimately I was gonna say the
shakes that story but people people
really should have referenced me more
whenever probably stuffing himself out I
think that team liquid was benefited a
lot from the fact that a lot of other
teams like TS
we're struggling to get their feet
underneath them in the beginning of the
split and and equifax as well not the
beginning the split over the course of
the split and and echo fox and others
that were kind of these brand-new line
ups as opposed to Team Liquid which had
a lot of veterans who would play
together so I think that allowed them to
sort of float above the rest of the
teams who obviously had talent and
showed it very frequently but then sort
of couldn't couldn't throw it together
at the very end and so I worried that
Team Liquid for them I worried that they
will not be able to have the same
benefit the summer is I think team TSM
will be coming in a little bit more
solidified and echo Fox might have
worked behind the scenes to solve some
of their issues and and rally around the
strong talent that they have cloud9
for them yeah cloud9 who had such a
great you know split well perhaps shore
up the things that caused them to lose
at the very end so I I'm not confident
that Team Liquid is gonna have his as
straight of a road to Worlds as they did
for MSI and and I'm I'm not confident
that they will have solved their
problems unless I don't know Olli they
need to figure out the solely thing and
I don't know how they figure it out so I
want to try and say like I agree with
some of the people in chat are saying
we're like you know they think that tal
is the closest to their ceiling or
something there's minimal room for
improvement but it in terms of like
skill or something like that but I think
that this team was playing in a
tiebreaker match to get out of groups
you know so like they were close to good
enough and I think you can point to some
of that those mental problems in the
first day or two days that they had that
held them back or what-have-you but I
think that the team if like Travis is
saying maybe the the rest of the lis can
catch up to them even if that doesn't
happen and TL just stays at that level
and they go in there and the medes still
decent for them and they just have these
mental problems handled now because
they've been to an international
tournament together I could see them
getting out of groups so like I'm I'm
not quite on the caller's camp
where it's like yep hundred percent
they're winning summer but I also don't
think that they're gonna be a team that
regresses a lot and I think that they
actually had all things considered okay
showing at the event I defer to mark on
in game but I will say like it seems to
me that usually trend-wise usually
spring split is a lot more about gelling
and teams often get significantly better
than the summer split especially with
this offseason where you have like most
of the teams explode rosters and
reshuffle so I don't like I you know I'm
not perfect concealed you to win the
split but I feel like they looked a lot
better at the end of this blow and they
had like settled in on bio as a
shot-caller and sort of figured out some
of their wrinkles
I'm curious to see if you'll see teams
that didn't necessarily have the raw
talent of Team Liquid but have a lot
more room to grow in terms of synergy
might you know look a lot better in the
summer I'd be surprised if the standings
didn't look a little different than they
did in the spring so if I chime back in
you know to kind of first with what
Travis was saying I somewhat disagree I
think they rode the that that train for
like the first two weeks in the spring
split and then they kind of you know
fell to middle top middle of the pack
and it wasn't really until the playoffs
where we saw their you know their
prowess in series play and that was
pretty impressive to see them kind of
run through and and then on what Mark
was saying I like that you said they
they had a decent showing a MSI and the
thing that I kind of think of is all
right so we assume if they go to Worlds
this thing with Olay isn't gonna happen
a second time right you assume that
they've nip this in the bud that he has
you know he's not gonna break down again
now obviously it could happen but we're
just gonna go off the assumption that it
happened once it shouldn't happen again
and even if they took one win in those
first two days instead they get out of
groups in MSI right like that that's all
they really needed so you you think
obviously worlds of a different stage
but
it seems to me like if they they solve
those like Mark said like you can see
him getting out of groups I mean of
course curse of an a and all that stuff
but yeah and also to be fair like TL is
not the only team going to that event
with problems in some way like fnatic
had a swapping top laner and obviously
so I wasn't very happy RNG showed up a
day before the tournament and nearly
passed out like I don't think King zone
performed their highest level so I'm not
I'm not just saying like TL wins one
more game they make it out I'm just
saying like you know they they beat some
good teams while they were there and if
they go into similar format another
international competition they they have
a chance to get out then - yeah and then
also I kind of just was starting with
with the mental fortitude the reason why
was I don't know and maybe maybe the
better maybe it's that they had a better
outlook and not really mental fortitude
was the right word but the way TSM lost
and even with double with on team full
disclosure I am a huge double with fan
but that that besides the point
watching TSM and I was a fan of theirs
as well the way they handled losses is
very different from the way Team Liquid
is handling their losses and some might
say that TSM the way they handle it is
better because it makes them if you're
hard on yourselves you become a better
team but that can also become
self-destructive team King liquids
outlook is I think it will give them an
advantage in the end is that they're
they're not you know I I think I
remember the camera painting after they
walked fnatic being like getting knocked
out of MSI and doublelift had kind of
like a well we tried smile on his face
is what it seemed like you know and
that's like a very different look then
then look like a year ago and like a you
know international events like that when
TSM lost right like that's not you don't
see that same kind of reaction yeah yeah
I mean I guess you could say like
putting less pressure on yourselves is
is good in some situations where you
don't feel like the whole world is
watching you but that that was how they
felt at the beginning of that tournament
and then
it sounds like a similar thing that
happened to fnatic at the end of week 2
at Worlds 2017 where it's like well we
fucked up so bad we're probably out and
then like that's kind of where they were
playing from and that's probably why
they had that relief smile a little bit
was more like we already fucked up so
bad like you know this is actually good
in context whereas I don't think you you
kind of want to have to get there where
it's like I think TSM put a lot of
pressure on themselves and they they
never like horribly fuck themselves week
one and so they probably had that
pressure on me the whole time where's
like the reason Olie fell apart was
because he felt that pressure and the
team felt that pressure were the sole
representatives of na or whatever you
know so I would still be considering
going into Worlds I'm not I'm not
convinced that pressure is gone it just
cuz that kind of felt to me like a bit
of a fuck it like we're probably out
like yeah mentality that the team might
have hit right right obviously it's
outside looking in and you know again
I'm being very optimistic you're right
we may could just go and frickin fail in
worlds as as usual but I'd like I'd like
to see the yeah I think we'd all like to
see a good showing from hey I'm down for
tail to go again I didn't I didn't walk
away from MSI like get this team away
from the Internet's for North America
Galip thanks so much for coming on the
show yeah thanks for having me
yeah have a good one you too well
that is hot line League we're gonna go
around mark do you have any shoutouts
plugs anything you want to say here at
the end uh no yes uh things are finally
moving on the mark doing things front
mark is finally gonna do something yeah
I can't reveal what any of these things
are Oh is this something I know about
this is an announcement of an
announcement is there something I know
about uh no I haven't talked about
either these things any three of these
things really but one one's not very
interesting oh I can't wait for you to
announce that one hey I'm doing this
kind of let me left you guess on what
that one was
yeah uh okay well we should we
ketchup and then you should tell me yeah
I'm down at lunch tomorrow if you want
to buy me some R&D kitchen I don't live
near R&D kitchen anymore
and that's right oh my god you a meeting
with omen but we can weigh in go to
Century City Mall some all that has
everything want to visit you don't want
to visit Santa Monica again dude I just
left there it's not the blame game I
know but like aren't you a little
homesick when she loved to go around
your old stomping grounds again I moved
three days know there is a chance that I
go visit ovie in his office later this
this week and if that's the case maybe
I'll hit you up it probably really your
fretting you should join us
yeah that sounds good we can all go
together and then you can tell over you
the secret yeah it's not the CQ like or
we can at least get our D I just can now
it's yeah yeah yeah that sounds good we
can I'll get RNG trashcan foot the bill
what I love it I love all this I just
moved and I lost thousands of dollars
covering fucking MSI I just went camping
and I lost thousands of dollars gambling
you know anyone can play this game are
these sorry are these so what did you
really lose a large gambling oh so then
you can't play this game Oh B do you
have a shout-out CV plugs anything you
want to say here what about the meta
I think we're all good another report
meta report is like a thing that
catalyst the company I work for does
like write-ups about recent things
happening in eSports every week it's
pretty cool
Travis currently retweets it sometimes I
really like it because we try a lot of
brands subscribe to it so it's kind of
an interesting place to get a sense of
how people who know eSports talk about
eSports to people that don't know
eSports if that made any sense so I mean
what the cool thing I like about it is
that I you know we're all kind of in
this league of Legends bubble if you are
interested in doing about some exciting
thing that happened on fortnight or
something that good announced an
overwatch or whatever if you if you
liked this episode and you find eSports
business to be interesting in the side
of the industry to be interesting that
that newsletter I think is one of the
good places to look as well as eSports
observer who have really enjoyed a MOBA
Cola just sent fifty dollars the one I
think the only he's the one donation for
this episode sent fifty dollars buy
alcohol for mark and friends I don't
know is a legend as far as I can tell
yeah I don't know about that whenever
mark mark one time got cut off on an
airplane with that was that was a good
time stewardess would not serve I went
to get a cranberry vodka for myself and
she would not give me a cranberry vodka
she was afraid that I was getting it too
for Mark so got all of us cut off on it
too so we were going to Hawaii this is
the TL sponsored trip thing oh this is
the trip that you took Travis on as
yours he has no right to complain about
this alcohol that he wasn't getting paid
by Steve some would say please don't
perpetuate people still think that's
like an accurate depiction of the
situation great friends out there yeah
there was thing I received a direct
order from Steve to bring Travis as my
plus-one instead of my actual friends so
that he could become cozier with him but
no we were on the plane is like my first
vacation
like that I had ever taken basically and
I was like I'm gonna have a good time so
I like immediately after takeoff I down
two bottles of wine like you know it's a
shitty basically glass of bottle and
then they said I couldn't have another
one so then I got someone else to order
me one and I drank that one and then I
was going to somebody else to get me to
order one think it was Travis I guess
and then that no I was never gonna give
you one you were asking other people I
went to go get my own and I got oh cuz
you're a belligerent by the time you
were asking me you got you were not you
were everyone was trying to sleep on
this plan you were talking very loudly I
agreed with the stewardesses opinion to
cut you up I didn't agree with her
decision to cut me off but I was come on
what do we think there's that plane was
packed there's a full plane it was not
packed oh my god there were not that
many people on it we need a third
witness for this story yeah who Damien
Damien was on that we'll talk to Damien
in the future yeah we'll figure it out
anyway I here's my
Schilling I got a couple more interviews
coming from MSI they should gone up late
last week but I was moving I have some
other cool projects I'm working on I
just moved trying to turn this into a
studio so if anybody wants to hit up the
Amazon wish list mostly just kidding and
that's it I wish I had more shout outs I
feel like there's something I'm
forgetting that I was going to show oh
I'm gonna do an auction so in moving I
realized how much how I have way way way
too much gaming memorabilia that I don't
like show it it's not it's just
collecting dust it's just I literally my
friends who were helping me move for
like you have to get rid of some of your
shit so I'm gonna auction some of that
stuff and it'll help fund
building out this room into a studio so
stay tuned for that it's already a lot
of the stuff is already listed but
apparently I can't link you guys to it
there's like a LCS headset or
put that in twitch chat it's great great
stuff
Travis I want to leave thanks everyone
for watching this has been a hot line
League episode 29